Science and Technology Centers: Integrative Partnerships | NSF - U.S. National Science Foundation
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS.
A
lock
(
Lock
Locked padlock
)
or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Search
Menu
Search
search
Find Funding
Funding Search
Award Search
NSF-wide Initiatives
Research Experiences for Undergraduates
Where to Start
For Everyone
For Early-Career Researchers
For Postdoctoral Fellows
For Graduate Students
For Undergraduates
For Industry
For Entrepreneurs
How to Apply
Preparing Your Proposal
Submitting Your Proposal
Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)
Additional Resources
Research.gov
Grants.gov
How We Make Funding Decisions
Manage Your Award
Getting Started
Request a Change to Your Award
Report Your Outcomes
Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)
Additional Resources
Research.gov
NSF Public Access Repository
Who to Contact With Questions
Focus Areas
Major Initiatives
Artificial Intelligence
Biotechnology
Quantum
STEM Workforce
Focus Areas
Explore All Focus Areas
Arctic and Antarctic
Astronomy and Space
Biology
Chemistry
Computing
Earth and Environment
Education and Training
Engineering
Facilities and Infrastructure
Materials Research
Mathematics
People and Society
Physics
Research Partnerships
Technology
News & Events
News & Announcements
NSF Impacts
Science Matters Blog
For the Press
Upcoming Events
About
About NSF
Careers at NSF
Updates on NSF Priorities
Contact Us
Our Directorates & Offices
How NSF Is Organized
Biological Sciences (BIO)
Computer & Information Science & Engineering (CISE)
Engineering (ENG)
Geosciences (GEO)
Integrative Activities (OIA)
International Science & Engineering (OISE)
Mathematical & Physical Sciences (MPS)
Social, Behavioral & Economic Sciences (SBE)
STEM Education (EDU)
Technology, Innovation & Partnerships (TIP)
National Center for Science & Engineering Statistics (NCSES)
National Science Board (NSB)
Science and Technology Centers: Integrative Partnerships
View guidelines
NSF 24-594
View image credit
Home
Funding at NSF
Funding Search
Science and Technology Centers: Integrative Partnerships
Print
this Page
Important information for proposers and award recipients
All proposals must be submitted in accordance with the requirements specified in the funding opportunity and in the
Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) and its supplements
.
All NSF grants and cooperative agreements are subject to the applicable set of NSF
award terms and conditions
.
NSF has updated its
research security policies
for NSF funded projects.
Supports large-scale, long-term projects that focus on creating new scientific paradigms, establishing new scientific disciplines and developing transformative technologies while engaging the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer.
Supports large-scale, long-term projects that focus on creating new scientific paradigms, establishing new scientific disciplines and developing transformative technologies while engaging the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer.
Synopsis
The Science and Technology Centers (STC): Integrative Partnerships program supports exceptionally innovative, complex research and education projects that require large-scale, long-term awards. STCs focus on creating new scientific paradigms, establishing entirely new scientific disciplines, and developing transformative technologies which have the potential for broad scientific or societal impact. STCs conduct world-class research through partnerships among institutions of higher education, national laboratories, industrial organizations, other public or private entities
,
and via international collaborations, as appropriate. They provide a means to undertake potentially groundbreaking investigations at the interfaces of disciplines and/or highly innovative approaches within disciplines. STCs may involve any area of science and engineering that NSF supports. STC investments support the NSF vision of creating and exploiting new concepts in science and engineering and providing global leadership in research and education.
Centers provide a rich environment for encouraging scientists, engineers, and educators to take risks in pursuing discoveries and new knowledge. STCs foster excellence in education by integrating education and research, and by creating connections between learning and inquiry so that discovery and creativity fully support the learning process.
NSF encourages input and participation in the STC program from the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer which includes underrepresented and underserved communities. In addition, NSF expects STCs to both involve individuals who are members of groups that have been traditionally underrepresented in science, engineering and mathematics at all levels within the Center (faculty, staff, students, and postdoctoral researchers) as well as be a leader in broadening participation in STEM. Centers may use either proven or innovative mechanisms based on the relevant literature to address matters such as recruitment, retention, success, and career progression of
all
individuals in the Center.
Along with research, education and broadening participation, Centers must undertake activities that facilitate knowledge transfer, i.e., the exchange of scientific and technical information with the objective of disseminating and utilizing knowledge broadly in multiple sectors. Examples of knowledge transfer include technology transfer, providing key information to public policy-makers, or dissemination of knowledge from one field of science to another.
Updates and announcements
STC informational webinar recording and PowerPoint presentation now available!
September 25, 2024
View more updates
Program contacts
Name
Email
Phone
NSF STC program
stc2026@nsf.gov
(703) 292-7161
Program events
Past
October 17, 2024 - Science and Technology Centers Informational Webinar
September 19, 2024 - Science and Technology Centers Informational Webinar
Additional program resources
STC Main Page
Awards made through this program
Browse projects funded by this program
Organization(s)
Integrative Activities (OIA/IA)
Directorate for Biological Sciences (BIO)
Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE)
Directorate for STEM Education (EDU)
Directorate for Engineering (ENG)
Directorate for Geosciences (GEO)
Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS)
Directorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences (SBE)
Office of International Science and Engineering (OD/OISE)
Program guidelines
Award information
Up to $ 30,000,000 annually, subject to the appropriation of funds.
Estimated number of awards
5
Estimated number of awards description
-
Centers.
Each award will be made as a cooperative agreement to the lead institution, with an initial commitment for five years of support and a possibility of continuation for five additional years.
Number of awards is approximate and subject
to availability of funds in FY2026.
Proposals may only be submitted by certain types of organizations. Please see solicitation for details.
Limit on number of proposals per organization
3
Limit on number of proposals per organization description
-
A single organization may submit a maximum of three preliminary proposals as the lead institution. Full proposals are to be submitted only when invited by NSF. There is no limit on the number of proposals in which an organization participates as a partner institution. The STC program will not support more than one Center from any one lead institution in this competition.
Proposals may only be submitted by certain types of PIs. Please see solicitation for details.
Limit on number of proposals per PI or Co-PI
1
Limit on number of proposals per PI or co-PI description
-
A PI or co-PI on one proposal in this competition may not be a participant in another STC proposal under review in the same competition. If a proposal is declined at any stage of the review process, a PI or co-PI on the declined proposal may then participate in another STC proposal. This eligibility constraint will be strictly enforced. In the event that an individual exceeds this limit, proposals will be accepted based on the earliest date and time of proposal submission (i.e., the first compliant proposal received will be accepted and the others will be returned without review).
There is additional eligibility information. Please see solicitation for details.
Review full program guidelines and learn how to submit a proposal in the latest solicitation.
Read the solicitation
NSF 24-594
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on X (formerly known as Twitter)
Share on LinkedIn
Email
Top
Publication date:
August 8, 2024
Last updated:
September 29, 2025
Randolph Building
401 Dulany Street
Alexandria, VA 22314
(703) 292-5111
Sign up for email updates
Footer
About Us
About NSF
Careers
Our Directorates & Offices
National Science Board
Contact Us
What's New
News & Announcements
Events
Science Matters Blog
Information For
Funding Seekers
NSF Awardees
Congress
Media
Educators
Panelists
Resources
Documents & Reports
Budget, Performance & Financial Reporting
Public Access
Stopping Harassment
Research Security
Scientific Integrity
Research.gov
Required Policy Links
Vulnerability disclosure
Inspector General
Privacy
FOIA
No FEAR Act
USA.gov
Accessibility
Plain language