Improving Undergraduate STEM Education: Directorate for STEM Education (IUSE: EDU) | NSF - U.S. National Science Foundation
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS.
A
lock
(
Lock
Locked padlock
)
or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Search
Menu
Search
search
Find Funding
Funding Search
Award Search
NSF-wide Initiatives
Research Experiences for Undergraduates
Where to Start
For Everyone
For Early-Career Researchers
For Postdoctoral Fellows
For Graduate Students
For Undergraduates
For Industry
For Entrepreneurs
How to Apply
Preparing Your Proposal
Submitting Your Proposal
Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)
Additional Resources
Research.gov
Grants.gov
How We Make Funding Decisions
Manage Your Award
Getting Started
Request a Change to Your Award
Report Your Outcomes
Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)
Additional Resources
Research.gov
NSF Public Access Repository
Who to Contact With Questions
Focus Areas
Major Initiatives
Artificial Intelligence
Biotechnology
Quantum
STEM Workforce
Focus Areas
Explore All Focus Areas
Arctic and Antarctic
Astronomy and Space
Biology
Chemistry
Computing
Earth and Environment
Education and Training
Engineering
Facilities and Infrastructure
Materials Research
Mathematics
People and Society
Physics
Research Partnerships
Technology
News & Events
News & Announcements
NSF Impacts
Science Matters Blog
For the Press
Upcoming Events
About
About NSF
Careers at NSF
Updates on NSF Priorities
Contact Us
Our Directorates & Offices
How NSF Is Organized
Biological Sciences (BIO)
Computer & Information Science & Engineering (CISE)
Engineering (ENG)
Geosciences (GEO)
Integrative Activities (OIA)
International Science & Engineering (OISE)
Mathematical & Physical Sciences (MPS)
Social, Behavioral & Economic Sciences (SBE)
STEM Education (EDU)
Technology, Innovation & Partnerships (TIP)
National Center for Science & Engineering Statistics (NCSES)
National Science Board (NSB)
Improving Undergraduate STEM Education: Directorate for STEM Education (IUSE: EDU)
View guidelines
NSF 23-510
View image credit
Home
Funding at NSF
Funding Search
Improving Undergraduate STEM Education: Directorate for STEM Education (IUSE: EDU)
Print
this Page
Important information for proposers and award recipients
All proposals must be submitted in accordance with the requirements specified in the funding opportunity and in the
Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) and its supplements
.
All NSF grants and cooperative agreements are subject to the applicable set of NSF
award terms and conditions
.
NSF has updated its
research security policies
for NSF funded projects.
Supports projects to improve STEM teaching and learning for undergraduate students, including studying what works and for whom and how to transform institutions to adopt successful practices in STEM education.
Supports projects to improve STEM teaching and learning for undergraduate students, including studying what works and for whom and how to transform institutions to adopt successful practices in STEM education.
Synopsis
Synopsis of Program:
The fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) hold much promise as sectors of the economy where we can expect to see continuous vigorous growth in the coming decades. STEM job creation is expected to outpace non-STEM job creation significantly, according to the Commerce Department, reflecting the importance of STEM knowledge to the US economy.
The National Science Foundation (NSF) plays a leadership role in developing and implementing efforts to enhance and improve STEM education in the United States. Through the NSF
Improving Undergraduate STEM Education
(IUSE) initiative, the agency continues to make a substantial commitment to the highest caliber undergraduate STEM education through a Foundation-wide framework of investments. The IUSE: EDU is a core NSF STEM education program that seeks to promote novel, creative, and transformative approaches to generating and using new knowledge about STEM teaching and learning to improve STEM education for undergraduate students. The program is open to application from all institutions of higher education and associated organizations. NSF places high value on educating students to be leaders and innovators in emerging and rapidly changing STEM fields as well as educating a scientifically literate public. In pursuit of this goal, IUSE: EDU supports projects that seek to bring recent advances in STEM knowledge into undergraduate education, that adapt, improve, and incorporate evidence-based practices into STEM teaching and learning, and that lay the groundwork for institutional improvement in STEM education. In addition to innovative work at the frontier of STEM education, this program also encourages replication of research studies to produce deeper knowledge about the effectiveness and transferability of findings.
IIUSE: EDU also seeks to support projects that have high potential for broader societal impacts, including professional development for instructors to ensure adoption of new and effective pedagogical techniques that meet the changing needs of students, and projects that promote institutional partnerships for collaborative research and development.
For all the above objectives, the National Science Foundation invests primarily in evidence-based and knowledge-generating approaches to understand and improve STEM learning and learning environments and prepare STEM majors for the workforce. In addition to contributing to STEM education in the host institution(s), proposals should have the promise of adding more broadly to our understanding of effective teaching and learning practices.
The IUSE: EDU program features two tracks: (1) Engaged Student Learning and (2) Institutional and Community Transformation.
Updates and announcements
IUSE Reviewer Availability Survey
August 6, 2026
IUSE: New FAQs Available
December 12, 2022
View more updates
Program contacts
For general inquiries, please contact
IUSE@nsf.gov
.
Name
Email
Phone
General inquiries may be addressed to:
iuse@nsf.gov
(703) 292-8670
Program events
Past
January 7, 2025 - IUSE Office Hours
December 11, 2024 - IUSE Office Hours
November 19, 2024 - IUSE Office Hours
October 30, 2024 - IUSE Office Hours
October 15, 2024 - IUSE Office Hours
Awards made through this program
Browse projects funded by this program
Map of recent awards made through this program
Organization(s)
Directorate for STEM Education (EDU)
Division of Undergraduate Education (EDU/DUE)
Program guidelines
Award information
The program estimates that approximately $61,000,000 will be available for new awards per fiscal year. See section III below for further information about the anticipated number of awards in the program's two tracks and the average size and duration of awards. The estimated program budget, number of awards, and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.
Estimated number of awards
135
Estimated number of awards description
-
The program estimates making awards for 50 Level 1 projects, 30 Level 2 and 3 projects, 15 Capacity-Building projects, and 40 conferences and workshops.
Proposals may only be submitted by certain types of PIs. Please see solicitation for details.
Limit on number of proposals per PI or Co-PI
3
Limit on number of proposals per PI or co-PI description
-
An individual may serve as PI or co-PI on no more than three IUSE: EDU proposals submitted during the period of October 1 through September 30. This eligibility constraint will be strictly enforced. In the event that an individual exceeds this limit, proposals will be accepted based on earliest date and time of proposal submission (i.e., the first three proposals will be accepted and the remainder will be returned without review). No exceptions will be made.
Review full program guidelines and learn how to submit a proposal in the latest solicitation.
Read the solicitation
NSF 23-510
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on X (formerly known as Twitter)
Share on LinkedIn
Email
Top
Publication date:
October 19, 2022
Last updated:
July 24, 2026
Randolph Building
401 Dulany Street
Alexandria, VA 22314
(703) 292-5111
Sign up for email updates
Footer
About Us
About NSF
Careers
Our Directorates & Offices
National Science Board
Contact Us
What's New
News & Announcements
Events
Science Matters Blog
Information For
Funding Seekers
NSF Awardees
Congress
Media
Educators
Panelists
Resources
Documents & Reports
Budget, Performance & Financial Reporting
Public Access
Stopping Harassment
Research Security
Scientific Integrity
Research.gov
Required Policy Links
Vulnerability disclosure
Inspector General
Privacy
FOIA
No FEAR Act
USA.gov
Accessibility
Plain language